Jacob White and Cade Crandall
CSCI261 Sections C and F

Project Title: Fives

Problem Description: 
For our final project we will be recreating the 2048 tile game using powers of 5 instead of powers of 2. Our code will present the user with various tiles that they will move around the screen as part of the game. The equal tiles will be combined and their original values will be multiplied by 5 to get their new values. The goal will be to get the highest value tile before the space on the screen is filled with the smaller value tiles. When the screen fills with tiles, the game is finished and the user’s score is calculated based on the number of times the tiles were combined and what their highest tile was that they finished on. 

Program Documentation:
This program needs to be built with SFML. The user can control the game by using the W, A, S, and D keys to move up, left, down, and right, respectively. Once the game is over, a message will display with the text “GAME OVER!”, and the user should close the window with the red X. Once this occurs, the user should enter the name on the shell to add their score to the leaderboard. 

If we had more time, we would have liked to add animation when tiles combine and slide. We likely could have done this with our use of SFML, but it would have been more processor intensive.

Tests:
We tested our game by assuring that the controls for the game board worked properly. The game was played multiple times and in one trial only the control keys (W, A, S, D) were pressed to be sure they were moving the tiles in the correct directions. 

In another trial, the arrow keys were pressed to check for any affect on the game. This trial found that pressing any key resulted in tiles being generated which was an error that had to be fixed in our code. Once resolved, the game was played again and when random keys were pressed the game was unaffected and new tiles were only generated if the move was possible. 

The game should end when the board fills with no moves left so this feature had to be tested by playing the game long enough to fill the board. The board filling was not the only condition that had to be checked. It was important that if there was still a move left when the board was full that the user can still make moves. In early trials the game would stop when the board was full whether there were moves or not. When this issue was resolved the user was then able to play until no moves were left as intended.


Cade Reflection:  
I learned a lot more about the process of software development in this project. Jacob and I were both very overwhelmed with the idea of creating this process, but dividing it up into different project sessions and having explicit goals made everything much more manageable. Classes were still a hard concept for me when we began working on this project, but I understand their use much better. In the same way, I didn’t have much experience with using SFML to create something outside of an assignment, so we had to use design principles and a lot of planning to efficiently create the SFML display. 

For my next projects in college, I will definitely spend more time brainstorming the UML diagrams. We originally had a lot more function included in the Tile class, but most of that functionality really ended up in the Gameboard or in main(). 

Jacob Reflection: 
This project was very helpful in learning how to use SFML. It was a bit of a challenge to implement the background code with what we wanted displayed in SFML but it was a great learning opportunity to learn how to use it properly. Time management was very important during this project as it required lots of hours of meeting up to finish it in time. Before jumping into it there was a lot of thought process to be sure we were going about it in the best way possible. Constant discussion was important for problem solving and working together really helped with learning how to implement the code in our project when there were areas that I was not very familiar with. Working on this project we were really good at asking for help when we needed it so in the future I hope to be more comfortable with seeking out help when I get stuck because it is important to realize you can not do everything on your own and people are always willing to help when they can, especially when working in teams.
